# Prosperity2
This repository shows our code for the IMC Trading Competition Prosperity2. This competition consisted of 5 rounds, each one with an algorithmic trading part and manual trading part that consisted of solving a brain teaser, related to probability and game theory.

# Round 1
In the first round, we got introduced to two products: AMETHYSTS and STARFRUIT. Amethysts was quite easy to trade as it's price stayed around 10000 units. We traded it by simply putting buying orders at 9998 and 10002. Starfruit's price was very spiky, but a moving average showed that it's price did not move much. It's trend would change quite suddenly so we opted for an exponential moving average. We bought starfruit when the spikes went below the moving average and sold when the spikes would go above.

# Round 2
In the second round, we were introduced to ORCHIDS. Orchids were brought two new features. The first feature allowed to measure the current humidity and sunlight, said to influence the price of orchids significantly. The second feature allowed us to buy and sell orchids with another island. After thorough analysis consisting of many different linear and non-linear regressions, no pattern was found. We concluded that the sunlight and humidity indicators were simply a distraction from the main opportunity to make profit, arbitrage. The cost of importing the product was at time lower than the price of sell the item to the island. This was not obvious to spot as we were given no past data on total importing/exporting prices. Our strategy was therefor simply putting selling orders just above the price of importing the product.

# Round 3
In the third round, we were introduced to 4 new products: CHOCOLATE, STRAWBERRIES, ROSES, GIFT_BASKET. In theory, a gift basket consists of 4 chocolate bars, 6 strawberries and 1 rose. The price of gift basket was very correlated to the cost of the constituents of the basket. We devised a very simple pair trading strategy. We treated the price of the gift basket as being the sum of the constituents and a premium. We dynamically calculated the mean price and the standard deviation of the premium. This way we knew when the premium was under or over valued. When the premium was a certain amounts of standard deviations away from the mean, we operated. Surprisingly, we found that instead of doing the opposite operation on the consituents, we made a lot of profit by doing the same operation.
